1. General Information: Monopoly is played by 2-8 players. Each player starts with 1500$ and the goal is to make everyone else go bankrupt
(rule 8) and be the last man standing.

2. The Bank: At the beginning of the game the bank owns every purchasable card, as well as either an infinite amount of
houses and hotels and always has unlimited amount of money. Players, when possible, can purchase all kinds of property from
the bank, mortgage or lift mortgage from their property in the bank (rule 6) and pay or receive money from the bank.

3. Turn Order: The turn order is randomised by the program at the start of the game.

4. Turns: Players start on the "GO" tile. On their turn, each player must roll the dice and move the number of spaces indicated by
the dice, if they roll a pair, they get to roll again, but if a player rolls a pair for the third time on a single turn, they go to
jail instead (rule 5, E). At almost any point on their turn each player can manage their property (rule 6) or offer resource exchange
deals (rule 7) to any other player as many times as they want.




5. Types of tiles:

A. "GO": The "GO" tile is the starting tile. Every time a player passes or lands on the "GO" tile, they receive 200$.

B. Property tiles: Property tiles are all tiles with coloured heads. When landing on a property owned by the bank (a property that has
not yet been purchased by any player), the player can pay the amount of money displayed on the property tile to purchase the property.
If the property is already owned by another player, then the current player has to pay the specified rent to the owner (rule 6).
Nothing happens if a player lands on their own property. Properties can never be sold back to the bank while the player is still in the
game.

C. "Community Chest" and "Chance": Both are random events, if a player lands on the "Community Chest" or "Chance" tile, they randomly get
one of the 16 cards from the "Community Chest" or the "Chance" pile respectively and immediately have to perform whatever is written on
them (unless it is the "Get Out of Jail for Free" card, in which case they keep the card until they decide to use it). If that card says
"Pay" or "Receive" it means paying or receiving money from the bank.

D. "Go To Jail": After landing on this tile, the player will be transported to the jail. In this case, the player will NOT pass "GO"
and will not receive 200$.

E. "In Jail/Just Visiting": If a player rolls the dice and lands on this tile, nothing  will happen, since they are "Just Visiting".
However, if they end up being sent to jail by any other means, they are stuck in the jail and cannot move until they are able to leave.
After being sent to jail, the player's turn has to end. There are three ways to get out of jail: a player can use their "Get Out
of Jail For Free" card if they have one, pay 50$, or roll a pair on the dice. If they roll the dice but fail to get a pair, they can't
move on that turn. If they fail to roll a pair for three consecutive turns, they MUST pay 50$ or use the Get Out Of Jail Card and then
leave the jail. A player can make a move immediately after getting out of jail. While in jail, the players can still manage their
properties (rule 6) and collect money  from other players.

F. "Railroad": Railroads are purchased the same way as property cards (rule 5, B), can be mortgaged and players have to pay rent when
landing on others' railroads, however, unlike property tiles, houses and hotels cannot be placed on them (rule 6), but their rent prices
depend on how many other railroads the owner has. The more railroads a player owns, the higher their rent price is. These costs are
displayed on the railroad cards.

G. Utilities: These are "Electric Company" and "Water Works". They can be purchased in the same way as property cards (rule 5, B) and a
rent must be paid to the owner after landing on it, but houses and hotels can't be placed on them. If a player owns one of these utilities,
then other players that land on it have to pay the owner 4 times the amount they rolled on the dice the last time they rolled. If the
owner of that utility owns the other utility as well, then others have to pay 10 times the amount they rolled. 

H. "Income Tax": After landing here, the player has to pay the bank 200$.

I. "Luxury Tax": After landing here, the player has to pay the bank 100$.

J. "Free Parking": Nothing happens when landing on this tile.





6. Managing property: Property tiles (rule 5, B) are grouped by their colors. Owning a full color group increases each property's
default rent. A player can place houses and hotels on property tiles, the houses and hotels will be bought from the bank.
Each house and hotel increases the rent for the property tile it's on. Up to 4 houses can be placed on each property tile, after that,
a player can remove those houses and replace them with a single hotel. No more houses and hotels can be placed on the property after this.
Both hotels and houses can be sold whenever a player decides to do so. The rent costs for each case as well as the costs of houses and
hotels for a particular property tile are displayed on the property cards. On their turn at any point a player can mortgage any property
in a card form (excluding "Get Out of Jail for Free") with no houses or hotels on it, which means they will keep the ownership of the
property, but will no longer be able to place any houses and hotels or collect rent from those properties. The player will receive some
amount of money in return which will be displayed on the card and will be able to lift the mortgage from the property after paying the
same amount with 10% interest. 

7. Exchanging resources: On their turn a player can offer a resource exchange deal to any other player as many times as they want. They
will choose what they are willing to give and what they want to receive in exchange. This includes money and any kind of property in card
form (including "Get Out of Jail For Free") that does not have any houses or hotels on it and is not mortgaged.

8. Bankruptcy: Declaring bankruptcy means losing the game. A player can declare bankruptcy at will at any point on their turn. If they do
so, they will give everything they own (every card, houses, hotels and all of their money) to the bank. A player will be forced to
declare bankruptcy if they are in a debt and have no means to pay it (even if they mortgage or sell everything they have).